# LCS-hw1
Programming implementations of DPLL with various heuristics

Random CNF formulas were generated with L/N ratio ranging from 3.0 to 6.0 with 0.2 increments, where L - number of clauses and N - number of propositions. The formulas were generated for N= 100, 125 and 150.
Three implementations of DPLL, the random choice heuristic, 2 clause heuristic and the max occurrence heuristic, were run on the generated formulas and their execution time and the number of splitting rule calls were recorded. The number of UNSAT formulas were also recorded. For N = 100 and 125, all three heuristics were used, and for N = 150, 2 clause and max occurrence heuristics were used.
The random formulas were generated by generating a number from 1 to N and setting the polarity with a probability of 0.5. 3 unique random numbers were generated to act as propositions of a clause. L such clauses were generated.

The random choice heuristic was implemented to choose a random number from 1 to N, to be the proposition to be resolved in a particular split. The value to be assigned to the proposition was chosen with a probability of 0.5.

The 2 clause heuristic identified the proposition with the most occurrences in clauses of size 2, to be chosen as the proposition to be resolved in a splitting call.
The max occurrence heuristic is the new heuristic experimented on. At every splitting call, it identifies the proposition that has the most occurrences in the formula to be chosen as the proposition to be resolved. The polarity is chosen based on the number of occurrences of that proposition with positive polarity (posCount) and the number of occurrences of that proposition with positive polarity (negcount).

If $$\frac{posCount}{negCount} > 1$$, the polarity was assigned as positive. 

If $$\frac{posCount}{negCount} <= 1$$, the polarity was assigned as negative.

A maximum timeout time of 300 seconds was used to terminate all three implementations.
